.\" Manpage for tinycols.
.\" Contact zedr@zedr.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH tinycols "6" "4 October, 2023" "version 0.8.4"
.SH NAME
.P
.B tinycols
- a tiny jewel matching game for the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.B tinycols
[-c class] [-C columns] [-R rows] [-d] [-h] [-V]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
TinyCols is a simple puzzle game for the terminal where the player
must position clusters of colorful jewels into a grid in order to match them
and remove them.
.P
The player controls one cluster of three jewels at a time and can rotate their
order. In order to remove jewels, there must be at least three lined up in any
direction (vertical, horizontal, and diagonal). The game is over when the
jewels overflow the top of the grid.

.B Controls
.P
<RIGHT>: Move piece right
.P
<LEFT>: Move piece left
.P
<DOWN>: Move piece down
.P
<UP> or <A>: Rotate jewels upwards
.P
<Z>: Rotate jewels downwards
.P
<P>: Pause the game
.P
<Q>: Quit the game

.SH OPTIONS
.P
.RS
.B -c <N>
.RS
The class, or difficulty level, of the game. This affects the number of
different jewel colors available for play.
The player can choose between three different classes: 1 (Novice),
2 (Amateur), and 3 (Pro). The default is 2.
.RE
.P
.B -C <N>
.RS
Use a grid with the given number of columns. Must be between 2 and 80.
.RE
.P
.B -R <N>
.RS
Use a grid with the given number of rows. Must be between 6 and 40.
.RE
.P
.B -d
.RS
Run in debug mode.
.RE
.P
.B -h
.RS
Print a help message and exit.
.RE
.P
.B -V
.RS
Print the program version and exit.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
.P
Rigel Di Scala <zedr@zedr.com>
